INDEXES  
Definition: The index provides a location of data so that the users can go directly to the data.  
Types of Indexes : Three categories described: heaps, clustered indexes, and nonclustered indexes. Heap and clustered indexes directly affect how data in their underlying tables are stored. Nonclustered indexes are independent of row storage.  1.Heap Tables​ : When the data is small. There is no structure maintained for them. This lack of a structured and searchable indexing scheme is referred to as a heap.In a heap, the first row added to the index is the first record in the table, the second row is the second record in the table, the third row is the third record in the table, and so on. There is nothing in the data that is used to specify the order in which the data has been added. The data and records are in the table without any particular order.When a table is first created, the initial storage structure is called a heap. This is probably the simplest storage structure. Rows are inserted into the table in the order in which they are added. A table will use a heap until a clustered index is created on the table (we’ll discuss clustered indexes in the next section). A table can either be a heap or a clustered index, but not both. Also, there is only a single heap structure allowed per table.  2.Clustered Index ​: The Indexed created column is known as key column .A clustered index stores the records in the table based on the order of the key columns of the index. The column(s) used as the key columns for a clustered index are selected based on the most frequently used data path to the records in the table. With many tables, the primary key or business key will often function as the clustered index clustering key. ​In a clustered index, the data outside the key columns is stored alongside the key columns. ​This equates to the clustered index as being the physical table itself, just as a heap defines the table. The primary key will be clustered by default​, but this behavior can be overridden and will be ignored if a clustered index already exists.  Reason for only one cluster index :​ Also, since a clustered index defines how the data in a table is stored, a table cannot have more than one clustered index. 
